what would happen if the fed and the ECB
eliminated 90 of the money that they
pumped into the banks over the last
decade talk about financial Market chaos
that's what we'll discuss here today
this is going to affect everybody your
retirement account your portfolio and
potentially even your job welcome truth
Seekers you've landed in the right place
I want to bring you what others simply
can't so join this Grassroots movement
of nearly 300 000 people hit that
subscribe and the notification beside it
so that we can conquer this together now
speaking of which you've come here for
the truth and that's what I intend to
give you the very first thing we're
going to lead up into what's happening
with the fed and the ECB that marks a
potential change in the policy that
they've had over the last few years and
the thing you got to know first is why
why well it's inflation inflation is too
hot and now they are addressing it
specifically and how is that the case
well they've printed a lot of money that
is the expansion of the currency Supply
and here we have it they may suggest
that they need to rein that in and
that's going to cause problem let me
show you why here we have it the very
first thing is the money markets and you
look at that it's basically cash
equivalents and a lot of investors just
keep money on the sidelines here waiting
for something to happen okay I'm gonna
you know deploy that cash I'm gonna make
this
um you know an investment that I want to
put in but not right now so I'm going to
keep the cash here well
the change has been over the last two
weeks that this has declined so now
people are putting their money into
let's say AI stocks they're putting it
into you know Nvidia and all this other
stuff and that's going on and that has
been a change over these last two weeks
specifically
then we get into this and the chart just
explaining the fact that again in a
different way looking at the same
information that people are not putting
their money into those money market
funds the savings rate is down we're
seeing people that are going in and
feeling more confident about what's
happening in the financial system and
then we have this okay very important
the
um essentially the deposits have started
to believe it or not decrease at this
time because people are investing in
these stocks okay they're putting money
into stocks and risk assets and they
don't want that safety on what they had
before
now
we get into the big part of this video
which is all about how the potential
right now the potential for a world of
hurt over the past decade the Federal
Reserve and the ECB
they have been fighting off sluggish
price growth and low borrowing costs by
flooding the banking system with cash so
everything that's happened has not been
the result of strength you look at the
stock market it has done extremely well
but not because of some positive element
because they've been pumping cash in
okay they call this quantitative easing
it involves purchasing massive amounts
of bonds from Banks thereby increasing
liquidity and stimulating economic
activity
but things are shifting in the economy
we're facing High inflation
increasing interest rates and that the
previously necessary extra liquidity is
becoming a burden rather than a benefit
and you can see how that is really the
case right now you have a balance sheet
that was near 9 trillion
that is going to have an impact you know
you you create this moral hazard you
create a problem by generating all this
cash out of thin air you send it out
into the financial markets and of course
you're going to get disruptions in
dislocations
so there's this paper from the Federal
Reserve and it suggests that the FED in
the ECB might need to reduce their money
monetary reserves in the banking system
the FED alone could reduce total
reserves from their current six trillion
dollars to somewhere between 600 billion
and 3.3 trillion the ECB would shrink
its own liquidity from 4.1 trillion Euro
to as low as 521 billion Euro I don't
know if they're going to do that but
essentially they are suggesting if you
want to slow down inflation this is what
you're going to have to do and you got
to realize this this is coming from the
Federal Reserve so it's not as if it's
some analyst or you and I talking about
it yeah they got to reduce this they
have to you know actually dry up
liquidity out there and we got to deal
with a world of hurt for a little while
I'll show you the actual
um article itself that references the
paper but for now I wanted to explain it
a little bit further what does this mean
for the financial markets well I think
we have to understand that these actions
could help combat inflation and could
stabilize economies in the long term it
is needed it would be fantastic are they
going to do it you and I know the answer
to that
but where it gets tricky is that a
sudden reduction in the available
availability of money of cash of you
know this I would I call it money but
you know what I'm talking about it's
currency could also cause some Jitters
in the markets and when I say Jitters I
really mean some new Underpants that
will be needed less money in the system
means less money available for Lending
that would slow down economic growth
this could potentially trigger declines
in the stock market and increase the
cost of borrowing for both individuals
and businesses okay but it all depends
on how markets react a reduction in
liquidity might lead Banks to sell off
less liquid and lower quality assets
that could further destabilize the
financial markets U.S treasuries German
buns known for the liquidity and safety
may be command the premium this could
this incentivize Banks from swapping
them
for deposits at the central bank
so you see that right there are so many
potential ramifications we don't know
how it will all unfold but that's the
real gist of this haul so we can see
where the money's moving that's why I
showed you in the first place and then
you could look at what the Federal
Reserve in the ECB the two big boys what
they plan on doing
so how will that impact the next part
stick with me I want to show you
here it is by the way
this is just the article
coming from Reuters
but if you see what the central banks
are doing they're increasing interest
rates they're basically doing all the
same thing
looking at the bank of England as an
example increase interest rates to five
percent uh you know just a year and a
half ago
nobody said that this what happened and
here we are they're tightening up
they are tightening at a time in which
the markets still don't believe it
so here we go the next part this is
related to my favorite Janet Yellen U.S
treasury secretary Jenna Yellen sees
lower U.S recession risk says the
consumer slowdown is needed further slow
down in price gains is in the pipeline
she says
China is being more constructive in
death talks and improves their standing
wonderful so I have to say that you know
we definitely want to agree with
everything that Johnny Gillen says
because there will never be a crisis in
her lifetime
on the chance of a recession she said my
odds of it if anything have gone down
because look at the resilience of the
labor market and the inflation is coming
down I'm not going to say it's not a
risk because the FED is tightening
policy so she makes the obvious
notion here that there is still a risk
of a problem and if you're going to dry
up hundreds of billions of dollars or
trillions of dollars in liquidity well
you might face some hard times that's
what I think
we'll see look at the other central
banks the UK Switzerland Norway turkey
all hiked on Thursday and in cases here
50 basis points so it's not necessarily
just these small Rises and the increase
of increases in the interest rates but I
see that coming
quite a bit look at this leading
economic indicators is a group of all
these different types of indicators
together and when we put that as a whole
it can give us a little bit of insight
and they make it clear that the U.S
leading economic indicators continue to
Signal a recession within the next 12
months so those numbers are all adding
up we're at the worst we've been in a
long time showing you this in different
charts same thing the leading economic
indicators back to the levels uh where
was that I mean we've we've saw that
back in 2018 which looked
um not so nice back in 2020 as well here
we are heading down further and further
and this is just in a year over year
look same data look it's all showing the
same thing economic indicators are
piling up left right and center and so
you have that problem when you mirror
this with the real GDP
um it is very clear that when these
leading economic indicators start to
decline so does the GDP that is quite
obvious you need to protect yourself you
need to understand the financial World
in a basic sense what it means to you
and so I talked about alternative assets
because you don't want to throw all your
money into your 401k and so on I'll talk
about alternative assets you watch this
video you'll know all about it click
there I'll see you there